[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: Brendan invented
the script tag because he had the problem,
where do you put the scripts
that go on the page?
And since HTML was a text format,
he decided to deliver the programs
to the browser in text form.
>> Douglas Crockford: Which is unusual
because most languages will deliver
an executable to the execution site.
JavaScript delivers source
to the execution site and
it was because of this problem.
So one of the very first things they
found when they started writing
pages to take advantage of
JavaScript was that when you display
those pages on Navigator 1 and on Mosaic,
the script would show up as text.
And that was because of the HTML rule, if
you see a tag and you don't recognize it,
just keep going.
And that was hugely embarrassing.
And there is no way they
could go back in time and
tell those older browsers not to do that,
so they came up with this terrible hack.
They wrapped the script in HTML comments.
And as long as you're not using a minus
minus, then the script will be hidden and
no one will see it.
I still see people doing that.
So if you see anybody doing that,
tell them this hasn't been necessary
since 1996, so knock it off.
>> Douglas Crockford: Microsoft added
a language attribute because they intended
to kill off JScript and
replace it with their own VBScript,
VBScript being a dialect of Visual Basic.
That didn't happen, and the irony is,
the reason it didn't happen was because
they did such a good job on JScript.
If they'd done their usual thing,
then JScript
would not have gotten critical mass and
JavaScript probably would have failed, and
they had a chance to steal the market,
but they didn't.
So as it turned out, JavaScript was
the only language that ran reliably on all
browsers, and so
that was the language everybody used.
The only people I've seen using
VBScript are criminals and advertisers.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: Everybody else
is using JavaScript.
They added the source attribute
which was a really good idea
cuz it turns out,
you should not put script tags onto pages.
If if you put scripts into separate files,
then they can be minified,
they can be gzipped, they can be cached.
All of which are extremely good for page
startup performance, which is critical.
If you put them on the page,
you don't get any of those benefits.
So everything should be in separate files.
Then finally W3C didn't like the language
attribute because they didn't make it up.
So they replaced it with their own
thing and they say that it's required.
But it turns out, if you're using
a source attribute, and you should,
it is the server that is authoritative
on what the MIME type of the asset is,
not the tag that requested it.
So the browsers are required to ignore it.
W3C says it's required.
I say leave it out, it's not necessary.
It's just a waste of space.
So, document.write is I hope
the worst idea Brendan Eich ever has.
The way he thought that interaction
with the browser was going to work was
that JavaScript would run as the page
is being loaded incrementally.
And that JavaScript, as it's running,
can insert new HTML text into
the document as it's being parsed.
Which was kind of awful.
So I don't see it being used
very much anymore except by
criminals and advertisers, okay?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: I see
advertisers use this a lot.
In the early days of web advertising,
there was a huge amount of fraud.
All the ad companies were
ripping each other off.
Misreporting image views and other things.
So they came up with this
agreement that the way
an ad placement can work is you
put some ad script on your page.
It will do a document.write of
a script tag going to an ad server.
And that one will then
return code which will do
a document.write of a script
tag going to another server.
And they can do several of those things,
going off to different places and
it allows all of these different companies
or agencies to separately count the thing.
So they can all agree on
what actually happened.
But one of the consequences of that
is they can add huge delays to
the rendering of the page.
Because everything has to wait until all
those ad redirections get finished, and
it's also a huge security vulnerability.
Because any of those servers can
be sending anything they want.
And if they send something nasty,
bad things happen and
there's no way to defend against it.
So that's all pretty awful.
So I don't recommend
anybody use it ever again.
So unfortunately where you put
a script tag on a page can have a huge
impact on the page loading time.
The correct place to put script
tags should be in the head.
Because it's meta, right?
Scripts are not content, they're meta.
So that's what the head is for.
Unfortunately, browsers are extremely
incompetent at script loading.
And so if you put scripts in the head,
then all parsing blocks until
the scripts load, compile, and execute.
Which means that if there are any images
in the body that need to get loaded,
they don't even start to load until
all the scripts are finished.
That's not good.
So Steve Souders figured out that we need
to move all the scripts to the bottom of
the body instead.
Which is great for performance but
terrible for reliability, but
that's what we do now.
He also recommended that we minify and
gzip the script files,
which is very good advice.
He also recommended that we reduce the
number of script files as much as possible
by concatenating them all together.
And they're really good reasons to
recommend that because HTTP is incredibly
incompetent at loading script files.
And so the serial delays in HTML request
transactions really hurt you badly there.
So Souders recommended that you can count
meet all of your script files together,
and turn them into one big file and that
way you avoid some of that HTTP overhead.
Unfortunately, that
leads to other problems.
It completely breaks caching because
every page will have a different
combinatorial set of
scripts it's gonna load.
So the likelihood that one
combined script file is gonna be
reused again is extremely low.
It also introduces bugs because there
are certain errors that can happen,
which are not correctable if
you put lots of files together.
For example, you might have one file
that's written by an incompetent idiot who
depends on semicolon insertion and that's
concatenated onto someone else's file.
And the place where the semicolon
would be inserted is no longer
an insertion site because of
the concatenation and now the file fails.